---
layout: "post"
title: "Painting"
date: "2018-08-01 08:58:00"
expire_date: 2018-08-07 13:00:00
image: /uploads/ie.jpg
news_image_alt: 'Photo of issue'
article_lead: >-
  IE issue search box . . .
video_content: false
video_link: ''
---

Oil painting notes for 'The Reader' painting, Completed 06-18-2003.

Worked on drawing spuradically for a month at around 2 to 4 hour intervals. on stretched canvas Fredrix.

The drawing was done with graphite of which I have heard some negative things about so in my latest painting of Jordyn I have switched to a charcoal pencil, kneeded eraser, chais, and blending stump. I have converted to charcoal because the graphite ends up getting into the paint. Also I have realized the level of value that can be acheived with charcoal.

I have integrated to new tools in my drawing also . These include the computer in which I can measure zoom in on my photo, an flip it all while laying out a grid on it. I have in this painting better integrated composition by adjusting with the computer.

I still feel that I am missing something here or there in detail but it is closer to what I want.

I am learning about luminosity through the 3D program. Also, translucency, transparency, better diffuse and ambient lighting.

I believe the skin trouble is with one of these items. I will have to keep working at this flaw. But I am realizing that I have a few hard edges in my charcoal drawing and in reality people don't have hard edges.

In the painting of the reader the pencil was not tight enough for my liking and I paid for that until completion, as I had value issues and general shape issues through the Verdaccio all the way through the final flesh tones.

I have also begun using my mall stick not only for painting but for steading my hand while I draw.

This thought just randomly brought me to another thing that I saw at michaels craft store that I need to get as I believe I need better protection for my photos that I am using for reference. It was a clear vynal sleeve I saw at Michaels.

Also want to get my hands on the book they had there by Chris Saper called "Painting Beautiful skin tones with color and light".

Oh well getting back from my tangent thoughts. I cannot currently recall any more thoughts on the drawing at the momment but. I am sure I am forgetting something.

My lighting is terrible right now as I pretty much am using a desklamp forced close to my painting and photo reference to see, I also have one hall light. these cast such nasty yellows everywhere in that it is hurting my values and colors used in flesh tones.

I need to research this in the near future.

Next my Verdaccio of the boy helped me greatly as it pulled the values together for me on the boy painting that rachel helped me name teh reader. The green in the face came through nice. The problem I have with the Verdaccio was that the greens work great for flesh but in the yellow areas it seemed to not help as the shadows needed more ochers and sienna colors.

I have heared and read through forums on the web that some that use the Verdaccio use complimentary colors to the colors they are going to actually use in that area. So I will try more of that technique in Jordyn's painting.

I first painted the under painting of the boy with a green Verdaccio mix. with turpentine to thinly cover the canvas. as that should help protect against rot, also it helped with getting my base tones down.

Next I mixed my Verdaccio with like 7 to 9 values. I used viridean. Titanium white, and mars or ivory black.

Can use ochre, red ochre, lead white need to copy Verdaccios article in wetcanvas.com on this style. http://www.wetcanvas.com/articles2/3261/292/

Used 20% liquin to liquify my paint to something more controllable.

I will continue with that Liquin mixture until I see any major problems.

As said need to have better values and softening in the Verdaccio.

Finally because of my lack of underpainting values it made the color section difficult. Not only did I have to worry about the value issues that kept poping up but also had to worry about color of which with a lack of good light made difficult. I need to understand skin-tones better as I said earlier that skin has a special translucent quality and blood is blue until it hits oxygin.

Oh well those are things that I have learned up until this point. on these two pictures.

Oh P.S. used poppyseed oil on the reader and then later switched to a 50/50 stand oil blend but I think the previous will have some effects on the reader in the future.

And then applied a light varnish retouch.

Verdaccio wrote in the forums "You will want to create a range of flesh tones that match (in value) the values that you use in the underpainting. then it becomes almost like a paint by numbers. Lightest undertones lightest flesh tones. Darkest undertone =  darkest flesh tone. Also, mix a slightly redder version of each value. work some of the redder tones into the areas of the face that have more blood. the cheeks, nose, lips, and anywhere flesh meets flesh in a crease."

work some grays into the skin tones any where the skin is stretched over bone that is close to the surface - mainly the forehead - not a mouse, but a gray flesh tone.

## charcoal drawing notes

I may try using bristle brushes to blend charcoal as Verdaccio says it works better than a stump.

## A money making idea the parade of homes

### Pricing
1. complexity of the project
2. where are in artistic career

1. scale of charges depending on head and shoulders. Full figure or several figures more for a painting than pencil
2. As became established can demand more based upon how work is wanted. If show in exclusive galleries or prestigious exhibitions and work sells can charge more.

Look for someone who is charging similar who is at the same place in their career and charge what they charge (ie market rate).

Never go backwards with price it hurts reputation.

Charge on the side of caution. ieesmith-on pricing
what is the clients maximum budget for the project and their ideas. If gallery artist don't undercut gallery prices, offer a 25% discount to family and friends.

When a potential buyer askes "is that the best you can do on the price", tell them my prices are firm howerver terms are negotiable. then state a downpayment, and a couple of payments retain artwork until it is paid in full, which encourages quicker payment.

---
verdaccio -- on pricing recomends charging first by the size of the painting then consider adding upcharges for additional figures, hands, complex backgrounds, jewelery, or fabrics. each means additional time and studies additional 30% for each item.
