---
layout: "post"
title: "My Evaluation 2015 - 2016"
date: "2018-08-01 08:58:00"
expire_date: 2018-08-07 13:00:00
image: /uploads/ie.jpg
news_image_alt: 'Photo of issue'
article_lead: >-
  IE issue search box . . .
video_content: false
video_link: ''
category: personal
---

# My Evaluation 2015 - 2016

## Employee strengths

_Elaborate on any performance factors exceeding expectations_

In evaluating a new web solution, I applied JavaScript to provide a succinct responsive navigation structure to the KCC site. This structure allowed the removal of the redundant mobile web application. Also, In cleaning and working to better manage KCC's email solution, Constant Contact, I was able to reduce cost while extending the number of conatacts and emails we could send out on the plan. As well as extend out the number of months the payment plan addressed.

## Opportunities for improvement/training needs

_specify any personal training needs; elaborate on any performance factors needing improvement_

If course available I will take the second half of the HTML5 course by the W3C this is Advanced HTML5.

## Employee comments:
I decluttered and reduced the number of email lists, assets and outdated contacts making our Constant Contact system more effective. If we have a contact in the system they are now tied to a current list. During the year our open rate improved to 18% open rate. Last year we were around 13%. Click through rates also increased. The average for this click rates nationally for colleges is 9%. We have hit that number or tend to go over it.

Working with web services, I narrowed a selection of vendors to begin a discovery process in hopes of replacing our current CMS system. Further progress on finding a replacement is on hold due to budgetary constraints.

I collaborated with Ellen and Laurel providing visual direction and CSS styling for the e-catalog's branding. I rebranded the Canvas website after it's technology upgrade and that will rollout in a few weeks. Also, I developed a web style guide providing direction and standardization. It Lives in KCC’s stylesheets and gets compiled with the rest of the CSS. It is a growing document. It documents the sites visual language, such as header styles and color palettes, used in creating the site. The styleguide is not a branding or editorial document. The web team will use it in discussing site changes and iterations. It standardizes site CSS and keeps it efficient. Web services can see if CSS is easy to extend or if it is deviating from standards and becoming bloated.

I took a refresher course on Web Design and Development on Udemy. This course highlighted building modern day layouts and how to enhance assets added to websites. I took a course on HTML5 and I am now certified by the standards body of the world wide web (W3C). I learned advanced Javascript and began utilizing numerous Javascript design patterns in KCC site work. I learned two new code editing environments. One of these editors is from Microsoft and is called Visual Studio Code and the other is from Github and is called Atom. I learned how to maximize my mac development abilities and I setup a web development environment on it. The environment is used for managing workflow of site building and management. Now I work through it's Unix terminal to expedite development task running processes. The environment allowed me to generate and improve the security, versioning and portability of content for three new microsites: seniors.kcc.edu, success.kcc.edu, and juniors.kcc.edu. I am leveraging similar technology to create the KCC 50th anniversary website.
